
The Greek Coffin Mystery
Ellery Queen

To
M. B. W.
WITH GRATITUDE

CHARACTERS
GEORG KHALKIS art dealer
GILBERT SLOANE manager, Khalkis Galleries
DELPHINA SLOANE Khalkis’ sister
ALAN CHENEY son of Delphina Sloane
DEMMY Khalkis’ cousin
JOAN BRETT Khalkis’ secretary
JAN VREELAND Khalkis’ traveling representative
LUCY VREELAND Vreeland’s wife
NACIO SUIZA director of Khalkis’ art-gallery
ALBERT GRIMSHAW ex-convict
DR. WARDES English eye-specialist
MILES WOODRUFF Khalkis’ attorney
JAMES J. KNOX millionaire art-connoisseur
DR. DUNCAN FROST Khalkis’ personal physician
MRS. SUSAN MORSE a neighbor
JEREMIAH ODELL plumbing contractor
LILY ODELL Odell’s wife
REV. JOHN HENRY ELDER SEXTON
HONEYWELL WEEKES Khalkis’ butler
MRS. SIMMS Khalkis’ housekeeper
PEPPER Assistant District Attorney
SAMPSON District Attorney
COHALAN D. A. detective
DR. SAMUEL PROUTY Assistant Medical Examiner
EDMUND CREWE architectural expert
UNA LAMBERT handwriting expert
“JIMMY” fingerprint expert
TRIKKALA Greek interpreter
FLINT, HESSE, JOHNSON, PIGGOTT, HAGSTROM, RITTER staff
detectives
THOMAS VELIE detective sergeant

DJUNA
INSPECTOR RICHARD QUEEN
ELLERY QUEEN

FOREWORD
I FIND THE TASK of prefacing The Greek Coffin Mystery one of
especial interest, since its publication was preceded by an
extraordinary reluctance on the part of Mr. Ellery Queen to
permit its publication at all.
Mr. Queen’s readers will perhaps recall, from Forewords in
previous Queen novels, that it was sheerest accident which
caused these authentic memoirs of Inspector Richard Queen’s
son to be recast in the mold of fiction and given to the public—
and then only after the Queens had retired to Italy to rest, as
they say, on their laurels. But after I was able to persuade my
friend to permit publication of the first one,* the initial Queen
affair to be put between covers, things went very smoothly
indeed and we found no difficulty in cajoling this sometimes
difficult young man into further fictionizations of his adventures
during his father’s Inspectorship in the Detective Bureau of the
New York Police Department.
Why, then, you ask, Mr. Queen’s reluctance with regard to
publication of the Khalkis case-history? For an interesting
duality of reasons. In the first place, the Khalkis case occurred
early in his career as unofficial investigator under the cloak of
the Inspector’s authority; Ellery had not yet at that time fully
crystallized his famous analytico-deductive method. In the
second place—and this I am sure is the more powerful reason of
the two—Mr. Ellery Queen until the very last suffered a
thoroughly humiliating beating in the Khalkis case. No man,
however modest—and Ellery Queen, I think he will be the first
to agree, is far from that—cares to flaunt his failures to the
world. He was put to shame publicly, and the wound has left its

mark. “No,” he said positively, “I don’t relish the notion of
castigating myself all over again, even in print.”
It was not until we pointed out to him—his publishers and I
—that far from being his worst failure, the Khalkis case
(published under the present title of The Greek Coffin Mystery)
was his greatest success, that Mr. Queen began to waver—a
human reaction which I am glad to point out to those cynical
souls who have accused Ellery Queen of being something less
than human. … Finally, he threw up his hands and gave in.
It is my earnest belief that it was the amazing barriers of
the Khalkis case that set Ellery’s feet in the path that was to lead
him to such brilliant victories later. Before this case was done,
he had been tried by fire, and …
But it would be rude to spoil your enjoyment. You may take
the word of one who knows the details of every single affair to
which—I trust he will forgive my amicable enthusiasm—he
applied the singing keenness of his brain, that The Greek Coffin
Mystery from many angles is Ellery Queen’s most distinguished
adventure.
Happy hunting!
J. J. McC.
* The Roman Hat Mystery, Frederick A. Stokes Company,
publisher (1929).

BOOK ONE
“IN SCIENCE, IN HISTORY, in psychology, in all manner of pursuits
which require an application of thought to the appearance of
phenomena, things are very often not what they seem. Lowell, the
illustrious American thinker, said: ‘A wise scepticism is the first
attribute of a good critic.’ I think precisely the same theorem can be
laid down for the student of criminology. …
“The human mind is a fearful and tortuous thing. When any
part of it is warped—even if it be so lightly that all the instruments
of modern psychiatry cannot detect the warping—the result is apt to
be confounding. Who can describe a motive? A passion? A mental
process?
“My advice, the gruff dictum of one who has been dipping his
hands into the unpredictable vapours of the brain for more years
than he cares to recall, is this: Use your eyes, use the little grey cells
God has given you, but be ever wary. There is pattern but no logic in
criminality. It is your task to cohere confusion, to bring order out of
chaos.”
—Closing
Address
by
PROF.
FLORENZ
BACHMANN to Class in Applied Criminology at
University of Munich (1920)

1 … TOMB
FROM THE VERY BEGINNING the Khalkis case struck a somber note.
It began, as was peculiarly harmonious in the light of what was
to come, with the death of an old man. The death of this old
man wove its way, like a contrapuntal melody, through all the
intricate measures of the death march that followed, in which
the mournful strain of innocent mortality was conspicuously
absent. In the end it swelled into a crescendo of orchestral guilt,
a macabre dirge whose echoes rang in the ears of New York
long after the last evil note had died away.
It goes without saying that when Georg Khalkis died of
heart failure no one, least of all Ellery Queen, suspected that
this was the opening motif in a symphony of murder. Indeed, it
is to be doubted that Ellery Queen even knew that Georg
Khalkis had died until the fact was forcibly brought to his
attention three days after the blind old man’s clay had been
consigned, in a most proper manner, to what every one had
reason to believe was its last resting-place.
What the newspapers failed to make capital of in the first
announcement of Khalkis’ death—an obituary tribute which
Ellery, a violent non-reader of the public prints, did not catch—
was the interesting location of the man’s grave. It gave a curious
sidelight on old New Yorkana. Khalkis’ drooping brownstone at
11 East Fifty-fourth Street was situated next to the tradition-
mellowed church which fronts Fifth Avenue and consumes half
the area of the block between Fifth and Madison Avenues,
flanked on the north by Fifty-fifth Street and on the south by
Fifty-fourth Street. Between the Khalkis house and the church
itself was the church graveyard, one of the oldest private

cemeteries in the city. It was in this graveyard that the bones of
the dead man were to be interred. The Khalkis family, for
almost two hundred years parishioners of this church, were not
affected by that article of the Sanitary Code which forbids burial
in the heart of the city. Their right to lie in the shadow of Fifth
Avenue’s skyscrapers was established by their traditional
ownership of one of the subterranean vaults in the church
graveyard—vaults not visible to passersby, since their adits
were sunken three feet below the surface, leaving the sod of the
graveyard unmarred by tombstones.
The funeral was quiet, tearless and private. The dead man,
embalmed and rigged out in evening clothes, was laid in a large
black lustrous coffin, resting on a bier in the drawing-room on
the first floor of the Khalkis house. Services were conducted by
the Reverend John Henry Elder, pastor of the adjoining church
—that Reverend Elder, it should be noted, whose sermons and
practical diatribes were given respectful space in the
metropolitan press. There was no excitement, and except for a
characteristic swooning entered upon with vigor by Mrs. Simms,
the dead man’s Housekeeper, no hysteria.
Yet, as Joan Brett later remarked, there was something
wrong. Something that may be attributed, we may suspect, to
that superior quality of feminine intuition which, medical men
are prone to say, is sheer nonsense. Nevertheless she described
it, in her straight-browed and whimsical English fashion, as “a
tightness in the air.” Who caused the tightness, what individual
or individuals were responsible for the tension—if indeed it
existed—she could not or would not say. Everything, on the
contrary, seemed to go off smoothly and with just the proper
touch of intimate, unexploited grief. When the simple services
were concluded, for example, the members of the family and the
scattering of friends and employees present filed past the coffin,
took their last farewell of the dead clay, and returned

decorously to their places. Faded Delphina wept, but she wept
in the aristocratic manner—a tear, a dab, a sigh. Demetrios,
whom no one would dream of addressing by any other name
than Demmy, stared his vacant idiot’s stare and seemed
fascinated by his cousin’s cold placid face in the coffin. Gilbert
Sloane patted his wife’s pudgy hand. Alan Cheney, his face a
little flushed, had jammed his hands into the pockets of his
jacket and was scowling at empty air. Nacio Suiza, director of
the Khalkis art-gallery, correct to the last detail of funereal
attire, stood very languidly in a corner. Woodruff, the dead
man’s attorney, honked his nose. It was all very natural and
innocuous. Then the undertaker, a worried-looking, bankerish
sort of man by the name of Sturgess, manipulated his puppets
and the coffin-lid was quickly fastened down. Nothing remained
but the sordid business of organizing the last procession. Alan,
Demmy, Sloane and Suiza took their places by the bier, and
after the customary confusion had subsided, hoisted the coffin
to their shoulders, passed the critical scrutiny of Undertaker
Sturgess, the Reverend Elder murmured a prayer, and the
cortège walked firmly out of the house.
Now Joan Brett, as Ellery Queen was later to appreciate,
was a very canny young lady. If she had felt a “tightness in the
air,” a tightness in the air there was. But where—from what
direction? It was so difficult to pin it to—some one. It might
have proceeded from bearded Dr. Wardes, who with Mrs.
Vreeland made up the rear of the procession. It might have
proceeded from the pall-bearers, or from those who came
directly after, with Joan. It might, in point of fact, have
proceeded from the house itself, arising from just such a simple
matter as Mrs. Simms wailing in her bed, or Weekes the butler
rubbing his jaw foolishly in the dead man’s study.
Certainly it does not seem to have thrust barriers in the way
of expedition. The cortège made its way, not through the front

door to Fifty-fourth Street, but through the back door into the
long garden-court serving as a little private lane for the six
residences on Fifty-fourth and Fifty-fifth Streets, which enclosed
it. They turned to the left and marched through the gate on the
west side of the court, and they were in the graveyard.
Passersby and curiosity-seekers, attracted like flies to Fifty-
fourth Street, probably felt cheated; which was precisely the
reason that the private route to the graveyard had been
selected. They clung to the spike-topped fence, peering into the
little cemetery through the iron bars; there were reporters
among them, and cameramen, and every one was curiously
silent. The actors in the tragedy paid no attention to their
audience. As they wound across the bare sod, another little
company faced them, surrounding a rectangular cavity in the
grass and a mathematically upturned heap of earth. Two
gravediggers—Sturgess’ assistants—were there, and Honeywell,
the church sexton; and by herself, a little old lady wearing a
preposterously outmoded black bonnet and wiping her bright
rheumy eyes. The tightness, if we are to give credence to Joan
Brett’s intuition, persisted.
Yet what followed was as innocent as what had gone
before. The customary ritualistic preparations; a grave-digger
leaning far forward and grasping the handle of a rusty old iron
door imbedded horizontally in the earth; a slight rush of dead
air; the coffin gently lowered into the old brick-lined crypt
beneath; a milling of workmen, some low hurried words, the
shifting of the coffin slowly to one side out of sight, where it
nudged its way into one of the many niches of the underground
vault; the iron door clanging to, the earth and sod replaced
above it. … And somehow, Joan Brett was positive when she
later told of her impressions of that moment, somehow the
tightness in the air vanished.

2 … HUNT
VANISHED, THAT IS TO say, until a brief few moments after the
funeral party, retracing its route through the garden-court,
returned to the house.
Then it materialized again, accompanied by such a horde of
ghastly events as made its source very clear indeed much later.
The first warning of what was to come was sounded by
Miles Woodruff, the dead man’s attorney. The picture seems to
be etching-sharp at this point. The Reverend Elder had returned
to the Khalkis house to offer consolation, trailing in his wake
the dapper, clerical and annoyingly fidgety figure of Sexton
Honeywell. The little old lady with the bright rheumy eyes who
had met the cortège in the graveyard had expectantly joined the
returning procession and was now in the drawing-room,
inspecting the barren bier with a hypercritical air, while
Undertaker Sturgess and his assistants busied themselves
removing the grisly signs of their labor. No one had asked the
little old lady in; no one now took cognizance of her presence
except perhaps imbecile Demmy, who was eying her with a
faintly intelligent dislike. The others had taken chairs, or were
wandering listlessly about; there was little conversation; no one
except the undertaker and his assistants seemed to know what
to do.
Miles Woodruff, as restless as the others, seeking to bridge
the ugly post-burial gap, had sauntered into the dead man’s
library quite without purpose, as he said later. Weekes, the
butler, clambered to his feet in some confusion; he had been
nodding a bit, it appears. Woodruff waved his hand and, still
aimlessly, occupied with dismal thoughts, strolled across the

room to the stretch of wall between two bookcases where
Khalkis’ wall-safe was imbedded. Woodruff has stoutly
maintained that his act in twirling the dial of the safe and
selecting the combination which caused the heavy round little
door to swing open was wholly mechanical. Certainly, he
averred later, he had not intended to look for it, let alone find it
missing. Why, he had seen it, actually handled it only five
minutes before the funeral party left the house! However, the
fact remains that Woodruff did discover, whether by accident or
design, that it was gone, and the steel box too—a discovery
which sounded the warning-note that, quite like The House That
Jack Built, caused the tightness to reappear that led to all the
dire events that followed.
Woodruff’s reaction to its disappearance was characteristic.
He whirled on Weekes, who must have thought the man had
gone insane, and shouted, “Did you touch this safe?” in a
terrible voice. Weekes stammered a denial and Woodruff puffed
and blew. He was hot on a chase, the goal of which he could not
even vaguely see.
“How long have you been sitting here?”
“Ever since the funeral party left the house to go to the
graveyard, sir.”
“Did any one come into this room while you were sitting
here?”
“Not a living soul, sir.” Weekes was frightened now; the
ring of cotton-white hair at the back of his pink scalp, puffing
over his ears, quivered with earnestness. In the eyes of stuffy old
Weekes there was something terrifying in Woodruff’s lord-and-
master pose. Woodruff, it is to be feared, took advantage of his
bulk, his red face and crackling voice to browbeat the old man
almost to tears. “You were asleep!” he thundered. “You were
dozing when I walked in here!”
Weekes mumbled in a soupy voice, “Just nodding, sir,

really, sir, just nodding, sir. I wasn’t asleep for an instant. I
heard you the instant you came in, didn’t I, sir?”
“Well …” Woodruff was mollified. “I guess you did as that.
Ask Mr. Sloane and Mr. Cheney to come in here at once.”
Woodruff was standing before the safe in a Messianic
attitude when the two men came in, looking puzzled. He
challenged them silently, with his best witness-baiting manner.
He noticed at once that something was wrong with Sloane;
precisely what he could not make out. As for Alan, the boy was
scowling as usual, and when he moved nearer to Woodruff the
lawyer caught the pungent odor of whisky on his breath.
Woodruff spared no language in his peroration. He chopped at
them savagely, pointed to the open safe, eyed each of them with
heavy suspicion. Sloane shook his leonine head; he was a
powerful man in the prime of life, elegantly attired in the height
of foppish fashion. Alan said nothing—shrugged his spare
shoulders indifferently.
“All right,” said Woodruff. “It’s all right with me. But I’m
going to get to the bottom of this, gentlemen. Right now.”
Woodruff appears to have been in his glory. He had every
one in the house peremptorily summoned to the study. Amazing
as it may seem, it is true that within four minutes of the time
the funeral party returned to the Khalkis house, Woodruff had
them all on the carpet—all, including even Undertaker Sturgess
and his assistants!—and had the dubious satisfaction of hearing
them, to the last man and woman, deny having taken anything
out of the safe, or even having gone to the safe that day at all.
It was at this dramatic and slightly ludicrous moment that
Joan Brett and Alan Cheney were struck by the same thought.
Both plunged for the doorway, colliding, boiling out of the room
into the hall, flying down the hall to the foyer. Woodruff, with a
hoarse shout, lunged after them, suspecting he knew not what.
Alan and Joan assisted each other in unlocking the foyer door,

scrambled through the vestibule to the unlocked street-door,
flung it open and faced a mildly astonished throng in the street,
Woodruff hurrying after them. Joan called out in her clear
contralto, “Has any one come into this house in the past half-
hour?” Alan shouted, “Anybody?” and Woodruff found himself
echoing the word. A hardy young man, one of a group of
reporters draped over the latched gate on the sidewalk,
distinctly said, “No!”, another reporter drawled, “What’s up,
Doc? Why the hell don’t you let us inside?—we won’t touch
nothin’,” and there was a little scattering of applause from the
onlookers in the street. Joan blushed, as was natural, and her
hand strayed to her auburn hair, patting it for no apparent
reason into place. Alan cried, “Did anybody come out?” and
there was a thunderous chorus of “No!” Woodruff coughed, his
self-assurance shaken by this public spectacle, irritably herded
the young couple back into the house, and carefully locked the
doors behind him—both of them, this time.
But Woodruff was not the type of man whose self-assurance
can be permanently shaken. He recaptured it immediately upon
reentering the library, where the others sat and stood about
looking faintly expectant. He rapped questions at them,
pouncing on one after the other, and almost snarled with
disappointment when he discovered that most of the household
knew the combination of the safe.
“All right,” he said. “All right. Somebody here is trying to
pull a fast one. Somebody’s lying. But we’ll find out soon
enough, soon enough, I’ll promise you that.” He prowled back
and forth before them. “I can be as smart as the rest of you. It’s
my duty—my duty, you understand,” and everybody nodded,
like a battery of dolls, “to search every soul in this house. Right
now. At once,” and everybody stopped nodding. “Oh, I know
some one here doesn’t like the idea. Do you think I like it? But
I’m going to do it anyway. It was stolen right under my nose.

My nose.” At this point, despite the seriousness of the situation,
Joan Brett giggled; Woodruff’s nose did cover a generous strip of
territory.
Nacio Suiza, the immaculate, smiled slightly. “Oh, come
now, Woodruff. Isn’t this a bit melodramatic? There’s probably a
very simple explanation for the whole thing. You’re dramatizing
it.”
“You think so, Suiza, you think so?” Woodruff transferred
his glare from Joan to Suiza. “I see you don’t like the idea of a
personal search. Why?”
Suiza chuckled. “Am I on trial, Woodruff? Get a hold on
yourself, man. You’re acting like a chicken with its head cut off.
Perhaps,” he said pointedly, “perhaps you were mistaken when
you thought you saw the box in the safe five minutes before the
funeral.”
“Mistaken? You think so? You’ll find I wasn’t mistaken
when one of you turns out a thief!”
“At any rate,” remarked Suiza, showing his white teeth, “I
won’t stand for this high-handed procedure. Try—just try—to
search me, old man.”
At this point the inevitable occurred; Woodruff completely
lost his temper. He raged, and raved, and shook his heavy fist
under Suiza’s sharp cold nose, and spluttered, “By God, I’ll show
you! By heaven, I’ll show you what high-handed is!” and
concluded by doing what he should have done in the very
beginning—he clutched at one of the two telephones on the
dead man’s desk, feverishly dialed a number, stuttered at an
unseen inquisitor, and replaced the instrument with a bang,
saying to Suiza with malevolent finality, “We’ll see whether
you’ll be searched or not, my good fellow. Everybody in this
house, by order of District Attorney Sampson, is not to stir a
foot from the premises until somebody from his office gets
here!”

3 … ENIGMA
ASSISTANT DISTRICT ATTORNEY PEPPER was a personable young
man. Matters proceeded very smoothly indeed from the moment
he stepped into the Khalkis house a half-hour after Woodruff’s
telephone call. He possessed the gift of making people talk, for
he knew the value of flattery—a talent that Woodruff, a poor
trial-lawyer, had never acquired. To Woodruff’s surprise, even
he himself felt better after a short talk with Pepper. Nobody
minded in the least the presence of a moon-faced, cigar-smoking
individual who had accompanied Pepper—a detective named
Cohalan attached to the District Attorney’s office; for Cohalan,
on Pepper’s warning, merely stood in the doorway to the study
and smoked his black weed in complete, self-effacing silence.
Woodruff hurried husky Pepper into a corner and the story
of the funeral tumbled out. “Now here’s the situation, Pepper.
Five minutes before the funeral procession was formed here in
the house I went into Khalkis’ bedroom”—he pointed vaguely to
another door leading out of the library—“got hold of Khalkis’
key to his steel box, came back in here, opened the safe, opened
the steel box, and there it was, staring me in the face. Now then
—”
“There what was?”
“Didn’t I tell you? I must be excited.” Pepper did not say
that this was self-evident, and Woodruff swabbed his perspiring
face. “Khalkis’ new will! The new one, mind you! No question
about the fact that it was the new will in the steel box; I picked
it up and there was my own seal on the thing. I put it back into
the box, locked the box, locked the safe, left the room. …”
“Just a moment, Mr. Woodruff.” From policy Pepper always

addressed men from whom he desired information as “Mister.”
“Did any one else have a key to the box?”
“Absolutely not, Pepper, absolutely not! That key is the
only one to the box, as Khalkis told me himself not long ago;
and I found it in Khalkis’ clothes in his bedroom, and after I
locked the box and the safe, I put the key into my own pocket.
On my own key-ring, in fact. Still have it.” Woodruff fumbled in
his hip-pocket and produced a key-wallet; his fingers were
trembling as he selected a small key, detached it, and handed it
to Pepper. “I’ll swear that it’s been in my pocket all the time.
Why, nobody could have stolen it from me!” Pepper nodded
gravely. “There was hardly any time. Right after I left the
library, the business of the procession came up, and then we
had the funeral. When I got back instinct or something, I guess,
made me come in here again, open the safe—and, by God, the
box with the will in it was gone!”
Pepper clucked sympathetically. “Any idea who took it?”
“Idea?” Woodruff glared about the room. “I’ve got plenty of
ideas, but no proof! Now get this, Pepper. Here’s the situation.
Number one: every one who was in the house at the time I saw
the will in the box is still here; nobody permanently left the
house. Number two: all those in the funeral party left the house
in a group, went in a group through the court to the graveyard,
were accounted for all the time they were there, and had no
contact with outsiders except the handful of people they met at
the grave. Number three: when the original party returned to
the house, even these outsiders returned with them, and they’re
also still here.”
Pepper’s eyes were gleaming. “Damned interesting setup. In
other words, if some one of the original party had stolen the
will, and passed it to one of these outsiders, it will do him no
good, because a search of the outsiders will disclose it if it
wasn’t hidden somewhere along the route or in the graveyard.

Very interesting, Mr. Woodruff. Now who were these outsiders,
as you call them?”
Woodruff pointed to the little old lady in the antiquated
black bonnet. “There’s one of them. A Mrs. Susan Morse, crazy
old loon who lives in one of the six houses surrounding the
court. She’s a neighbor.” Pepper nodded, and Woodruff pointed
out the sexton, standing trembling behind Reverend Elder.
“Then there was Honeywell, the shrinking little fellow—sexton
of the church next door; and those two workingmen next to
him, the gravediggers, are employees of that fellow over there—
Sturgess the undertaker. Now, point number four: while we
were in the graveyard, no one entered the house or went out—I
established that from some reporters who’ve been hanging
about outside. And I myself locked the doors after that, so no
one has been able to go out or come in since.”
“You’re making it tougher, Mr. Woodruff,” said Pepper,
when an angry voice exploded behind them, and he turned to
find young Alan Cheney, more flushed than ever, brandishing a
forefinger at Woodruff.
“Who’s this?” asked Pepper.
Alan was crying, “Look here, Off’cer, don’t believe him. He
didn’t ask the reporters! Joan Brett did—Miss Brett over here
did. Di’n’t you, Joanie?”
Joan had what might be termed the basis for a chilly
expression—a tall slender English body, a haughty chin, a pair
of very clear blue eyes and a nose susceptible of tilting
movement. She looked through young Cheney in the general
direction of Pepper and said with icy, chiming distinctness,
“You’re potted again, Mr. Cheney. And please don’t call me
‘Joanie’. I detest it.”
Alan stared blearily at an interesting shoulder. Woodruf
said to Pepper, “He’s drunk again, you see—that’s Alan Cheney,
Khalkis’ nephew, and—”

Pepper said, “Excuse me,” and walked after Joan. She faced
him a little defiantly. “Was it you who thought of asking the
reporters, Miss Brett?”
“Indeed it was!” Then two little pink spots appeared in her
cheeks. “Of course, Mr. Cheney thought of it, too; we went
together, and Mr. Woodruff followed us. It’s remarkable that
that drunken young sot had the manliness to give a lady credit
for …”
“Yes, of course.” Pepper smiled—he had a winning smile
with the fair sex. “And you are, Miss Brett—?”
“I was Mr. Khalkis’ secretary.”
“Thank you so much.” Pepper returned to a wilted
Woodruff. “Now, Mr. Woodruff, you were going to tell me—”
“Just going over the whole ground for you, Pepper, that’s
all.” Woodruff cleared his throat. “I was going to say that the
only two people in the house during the funeral were Mrs.
Simms, the housekeeper, who collapsed at Khalkis’ death and
has been confined to her room ever since; and the butler
Weekes. Now Weekes—this is the unbelievable part of it—
Weekes was in the library all the time we were gone. And he
swears that no one came in. He had the safe under observation
all the time.”
“Good. Now we’re getting somewhere,” said Pepper briskly.
“If Weekes is to be believed, we can now begin to limit the
probable time of the theft a bit. It must have occurred during
the five minutes between the time you looked at the will and
the time the funeral party left the house. Sounds simple
enough.”
“Simple?” Woodruff was not quite certain.
“Sure. Cohalan, come here.” The detective slouched across
the room, followed by eyes that were chiefly blank. “Get this.
We’re looking for a stolen will. It must be in one of four places.
It’s either hidden in the house here; or it’s on the person of some

one now in the house; or it’s been dropped somewhere along the
private court route; or it will be found in the graveyard itself.
We’ll eliminate them one by one. Hold up a sec while I get the
Chief on the wire.”
He dialed the number of the District Attorney’s office, spoke
briefly to District Attorney Sampson, and returned rubbing his
hands. “The D.A. is sending police assistance. After all, we’re
investigating a felony. Mr. Woodruff, you’re appointed a
committee of one to hold all persons in this room while Cohalan
and I go over the courtyard and graveyard. One moment, please,
everybody!” They gaped at him: a stupefaction of indecision, of
mystery, of bewilderment had crept over them. “Mr. Woodruff is
going to stay here in charge and you’ll please cooperate with
him. Don’t leave this room, any one.” He and Cohalan strode
out of the room.
Fifteen minutes later they returned, empty-handed, to find
four newcomers in the library. They were Sergeant Thomas
Velie, black-browed giant attached to Inspector Queen’s staff;
two of Velie’s men, Flint and Johnson; and a broad and ample
police matron. Pepper and Velie held earnest colloquy in a
corner, Velie noncommittal and cold as usual, while the others
sat apathetically waiting.
“Covered the court and graveyard, have you?” growled
Velie.
“Yes, but it might be a good idea if you and your men go
over the ground again,” said Pepper. “Just to make sure.”
Velie rumbled something to his two men, and Flint and
Johnson went away. Velie, Pepper and Cohalan began a
systematic search of the house. They launched the search from
the room they were in, Khalkis’ study, and worked through to
the dead man’s bedroom and bathroom, and Demmy’s bedroom
beyond. They returned and Velie, without explanation, went
over the study again. He ferreted about in the safe, in the

drawers of the dead man’s desk on which the telephones stood,
through the books and bookshelves lining the walls. … Nothing
escaped his attention, not even a small taboret standing in an
alcove, on which were a percolator and various tea-things; with
utter gravity Velie removed the tight lid of the percolator and
peered inside. Grunting, he led the way out of the library into
the hall, from which they spread to search the drawing-room,
the dining-room, and the kitchens, closets and pantry to the
rear. The sergeant examined with particular care the dismantled
trappings furnished for the funeral by Undertaker Sturgess; but
he discovered nothing. They mounted the stairs and swept
through the bedrooms like Visigoths, avoiding only Mrs. Simms’
sanctuary; then they climbed to the attic and raised clouds of
dust rummaging through old bureaus and trunks.
“Cohalan,” said Velie, “tackle the basement.” Cohalan
sucked sadly at his cigar, which had gone out, and trudged
downstairs.
“Well, Sergeant,” said Pepper as the two men leaned,
puffing, against a bare attic wall, “it looks as if we’ll have to do
the dirty work at that. Damn it, I didn’t want to have to search
those people.”
“After this muck,” said Velie, looking down at his dusty
fingers, “that’ll be a real pleasure.”
They went downstairs. Flint and Johnson joined them. “Any
luck, boys?” growled Velie.
Johnson, a small drab-looking creature with dirty-grey hair,
stroked his nose and said, “Nothing doin’. To make it worse, we
got hold of a wench—maid or somethin’—in a house on the
other side of the court. Said she was watchin’ the funeral
through a back window, and she’s been snoopin’ there ever
since. Well, Sarge, this jane says that with the exception of two
men—Mr. Pepper and Cohalan, I guess—nobody’s come out of
the back of this house since the funeral party returned from the

graveyard. Nobody’s come out of the back of any house on the
court.”
“How about the graveyard itself?”
“No luck there either,” said Flint. “Gang of newspaper leg-
men’ve been hanging around outside the iron fence on the Fifty-
fourth Street side of the graveyard. They say there hasn’t been a
damn soul in the graveyard since the funeral.”
“Well, Cohalan?”
Cohalan had succeeded in relighting his cigar, and he wore
a happier expression. He shook his moon-face vigorously. Velie
muttered, “Well, I don’t see what there is to laugh about, you
dumb ox,” and strode into the center of the room. He raised his
head and, quite like a parade-sergeant, roared, “’Tention!”
They sat up, brightening, some of the weariness fleeing
their faces. Alan Cheney crouched in a corner, head between his
hands, rocking himself gently. Mrs. Sloane had long since
dabbed away the last decorous tear; even Reverend Elder wore
an expectant expression. Joan Brett stared at Sergeant Velie
with anxious eyes.
“Now get this,” said Velie in a hard voice. “I don’t want to
step on anybody’s toes, y’understand, but there’s a job to be
done and I’m going to do it. I’m going to have every one in this
house searched—down to the skin, if necessary. That will that
was stolen can be in only one place—on the person of somebody
right here. If you’re wise, you’ll take it like sports. Cohalan,
Flint, Johnson—tackle the men. Matron,” he turned to the
brawny policewoman, “you take the ladies into the drawing-
room, close the doors and get busy. And don’t forget! If you
don’t find it on one of ’em, tackle the housekeeper and her room
upstairs.”
The study erupted in little conversations, assorted
comments, half-hearted protests. Woodruff twiddled his thumbs
before the desk and eyed Nacio Suiza benevolently; Suiza

thereupon grinned and offered himself to Cohalan as the first
victim. The women straggled out of the room; and Velie
snatched one of the telephones. “Police Headquarters … Gimme
Johnny … Johnny? Get Edmund Crewe down to Eleven East
Fifty-fourth right away. Rush job. Snap into it.” He leaned
against the desk and watched frostily, Pepper and Woodruff by
his side, as the three detectives took the men one by one and
explored each male body with a thoroughness and impersonality
that was shameless. Velie moved suddenly; Reverend Elder,
quite uncomplaining, was due to be the next victim. “Reverend
… Here, Flint, none o’ that! I’ll waive a search in your case,
Reverend.”
“You will do nothing of the kind, Sergeant,” replied the
minister. “According to your lights I am as much a possibility as
any of the others.” He smiled as he saw the indecision on Velie’s
hard face. “Very well. I’ll search myself, Sergeant, in your
presence.” Velie’s scruple at laying irreverent hands on the cloth
did not prevent him from watching with keen eyes as the pastor
turned out all his pockets, loosened his clothes and forced Flint
to pass his hands over his body.
The matron trudged back with a laconic grunt of negation.
The women—Mrs. Sloane, Mrs. Morse, Mrs. Vreeland and Joan
—were all flushed; they avoided the eyes of the men. “The fat
dame upstairs—housekeeper?—she’s okay too,” said the matron.
There was silence. Velie and Pepper faced each other
gloomily; Velie, confronted by an impossibility, was growing
angry and Pepper, behind his bright inquisitive eyes, was
thinking hard. “There’s something screwy somewhere,” said
Velie in an ugly voice. “You’re dead sure, matron?”
The woman merely sniffed.
Pepper grasped Velie’s coat-lapel. “Look here, Sergeant,” he
said softly. “There’s something vitally wrong here, as you say,
but we can’t butt our heads against a stone wall. It’s possible

that there’s a secret closet or something in the house that we
didn’t find. Crewe, your architectural expert, will certainly
locate it if it exists. After all, we’ve done the best we can, all we
can. And we can’t keep these people here forever, especially
those who don’t live in the house. …”
Velie scuffed the rug viciously. “Hell, the Inspector’ll
murder me for this.”
Things happened swiftly. He stepped back, and Pepper
politely suggested that the outsiders were free to leave, while
those who lived, in the house were not to quit the premises
without official permission and without being searched
thoroughly each time. Velie crooked his finger at the matron
and Flint, who was a muscular young man, and led the way out
into the hall and to the foyer, where he grimly took his stand by
the front door. Mrs. Morse uttered a little squeal of terror as she
shuffled toward him. “Search this lady again, matron,” growled
Velie. … The Reverend Elder he favored with a bleak smile; but
Honeywell the sexton he examined himself. Meanwhile Flint
was again searching Undertaker Sturgess, his two assistants, and
a bored Nacio Suiza.
As in all former searches, the result was empty air.
Velie stamped back to the library after the outsiders left,
stationing Flint on guard outside the house, where he could
watch both the front door and the front basement door below
the stone steps. Johnson he dispatched to the back door at the
top of a flight of wooden steps leading down into the court;
Cohalan he sent to the rear door level with the court, which led
out of the rear of the basement. Pepper was engaged in earnest
conversation with Joan Brett. Cheney, a much chastened young
man, rumpled his hair and scowled at Pepper’s back. Velie
swung a horny finger at Woodruff.
